added small team responsibilities, defined the role of the team lead and cleared up how PMs work with engineers (#4261)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/handbook/people/team-structure/app-small-teams.md

---

> title: Product Small Teams

Reviewer: feedback: this title confused me! (ie we treat website and docs like a product too / customer success also should be treated like a product)

I'd probably just work this content into the existing page that explains small teams: https://posthog.com/handbook/people/team-structure/team-structure

I generally think though the content here is valuable and clarifies a bunch of things!

Reviewer 2: +1 to that. I'd say we're "small teams", and making a distinction "product small teams", "infra small teams", "marketing small teams", etc loses the "everyone's a full stack product minded engineer" mindset. Also, infra, marketing, customer success, etc are all part of our product.

Author: Good suggestions and I agree with the reasoning. I'll refactor into the team-structure page

sidebar: Handbook
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: false
---

> App Small Teams are particular types of Small Teams that own an area of the product.

Reviewer 3: Is "App" too overloaded a term

I've seen these called "product teams" or ["stream-aligned teams"](https://teamtopologies.com/key-concepts)

Author: I was choosing between "App team", "Product team" and "Feature team". On reflection I also think "Product team" makes the most sense and makes it clear the team is responsible for their product area holistically

> ## What does owning an area of the product mean?

Reviewer 3: Also makes me want to ask "what are the areas of the product?"

Author: not sure I understand, would you mind rephrasing?

Reviewer 3: I suppose I'm asking... do we have a list of the products/product teams?

* session recordings
* product analytics
* flags and experimentation
* ingestion
* platform

??

Is every team a product team?

The app small team is responsible for everything related to that area of the product including:

1. Usage
2. Quality
3. Revenue

## What actions should the app small teams be doing for their area?

- Each quarter:
  1. Create good quarterly OKRs
  2. Create an ambitious vision for their area
- During the quarter:

>   1. Maintain a prioritized roadmap to help them achieve their objectives

Reviewer 4: What problem does having a roadmap for each team solve and who will be it's main consumers?

(I wrote in-depth about why I'm not a fan of how roadmap-driven development usually falls out here: https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/issues/11749#issuecomment-1253302481)

Reviewer 3: Does roadmap here really mean backlog? But as Karl says "roadmap" "backlog" and similar are overloaded and can reduce clarity

If we rewrote as `frequently prioritise upcoming work to remain focussed on their objectives`... does that help guide what we do without restricting how we do it?

Author: What Annika and Paul are saying with "frequently prioritise upcoming work to remain focussed on their objectives" is more what I'm thinking. It's not about having a strict list of stuff they must deliver, but more a space for them to keep track of potential ideas for the future sprints.

Author: I'll update this now

Author: What do you think about there being a more formal requirement that this is saved as a stack ranked list that is shared internally? We don't need to be prescriptive of the format or location but I know it would help me and likely others if there was a linked list written down somewhere?

Author: So the line would be "Frequently prioritize upcoming work to help them achieve their objectives (the format does not matter but the link to this should be shared)"

Reviewer 3: That's fine by me... 

We need to keep each other honest so it doesn't become too large a list or too process-y to keep it up-to-date

("the planning is essential but the plans are worthless" - Dwight D. Eisenhower)

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what line should end up in this doc, but at least in Team Product Analytics, we're dumping every relevant issue that comes our way onto [the project's board here](https://github.com/orgs/PostHog/projects/59), and at least each week coming back to see what urgent bugs are there to distract us from our OKRs :).

  2. Speak to customers
  3. Monitor relevant metrics including those covering Usage, Quality and Revenue
  4. Triage and fix related bugs
  5. Assist the support hero in answering related questions

>   6. Collaborate with marketing

Reviewer 5: I would also add a cheeky point here: "Become power users of their app area and use PostHog in their product development process" 
I know that we are doing this already so some extent, but I would love to specify this as part of this ways of working proposal

## What is the role of the team lead?

> The team lead should led the team to make sure the above happens. They should get the team fully involved rather that doing everything themselves.

Reviewer 6: 🤔 "team lead should lead the team" ?

```suggestion
The team lead is overall responsible for ensuring the above happens. They should focus on enabling the team to solve these tasks together rather than trying to do it all themself.
```

> ## What do the product managers do?

Reviewer 3: Do we need a `## What do the designers do?` section?

Author: Good point. This is a bigger topic of discussion and is still being clarified

@corywatilo if you feel confident writing a section here go for it otherwise we can add a link to https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/4003/files after it's published

With our engineering-led culture, the engineers on the app small team are responsible for the product. 

> We have a small number of product managers who support the app small teams in achieving their goals. This includes a wide range of activities such as helping with prioritization, setting up dashboards, competitors analysis, speaking to customers etc.

Reviewer 4: Of these, setting up dashboards seems like the odd one out for me - given the teams priorities are clear, anyone on the team should be empowered to set up and maintain metrics.

Reviewer 3: >  setting up dashboards seems like the odd one out for me - given the teams priorities are clear, anyone on the team should be empowered to set up and maintain metrics.

Yep, feels like, as with prioritization, product folk should be the local experts enabling everyone to do it.

Author: I agree with this "anyone on the team should be empowered to set up and maintain metrics" @macobo and was what I meant with that sentence. Any ideas how to frame it better?
